MachineMax, the global provider of innovative software designed to maximise the productivity and profitability of off-highway machinery, has today launched a new online calculator aimed at helping construction companies save millions of pounds on machine rental costs. The tool, which takes just two minutes to complete, is based on data that considers the types of machines users are looking to save money on, fleet size and the hourly rate of an excavator operator to calculate the figure. The cost assumptions are modelled based on data collected from customers or industry standards. For instance, companies could save up to one million pounds a year if they have around 27 heavy equipment machines idling for 1,000 hours PA (recognised industry standard) where idling costs are estimated at £38,000 each. MachineMax’s savings calculator also has an advanced savings option, giving users more accurate results based on actual site costs including maintenance and fuel. Jennifer Thomson, Business Strategy Manager at MachineMax, said: “This calculator is an excellent tool to highlight how much it costs a company to have equipment just sitting around doing nothing. “If you think of a dumper truck or an excavator in a construction environment a lot of the time they are left on and idling. “Whilst it’s idling, it’s not doing anything, therefore, businesses are missing out on any productivity time, which represents a cost or a potential loss in revenue to the customer. “But also whilst idling you’ve still got an operator in the cab, you’re still burning fuel and you still have the machine on. “The implication of the engine being on means that, just like an odometer in a car, the hours or the clock (Standard Metred Unit, SMU) is still running even though the machine isn’t doing anything. “So the equipment is serviced every 250 hours, which is normal in the industry, then that means just by leaving the engine on you’re getting much closer to that service interval and you’re not getting anything for those hours that the equipment is running. “So this calculator is looking to highlight how much money you can save just by cutting down that idling time.” Jennifer adds: “The calculator is easy to use and predominately aimed at helping the end-users and owners of the equipment. “All you have to do is answer a few simple questions to find out how much can be saved. “For instance, if you are a construction company who uses mobile equipment with a fleet size of 25, and the average cost of an operator is 15 pounds an hour you could save almost half a million pounds a year.”