         According to a recent report by the Grattan Institute, mining and energy corporates have used paid lobbyists to access the Queensland Labor government 214 times in the past six years. We speak to the institute about the benefits of this, and ask whether the industry is, as Grattan researcher and senior associate Kate Griffiths said, “punching well above their weight”? Also in the next issue, we speak to the University of Adelaide’s new national mining research and training centre about the advanced technologies its using and how they can benefit the industry, and find out about Geosciences Australia’s improved positioning technology. We also look at how companies are making minerals transfer more environmentally friendly, examine the reasons behind gold’s impressive recent performance, and explore the state of the mining industry in South Australia. Click here to read the latest mining industry news and analysis, and join the conversation on Twitter. “Punching above their weight”: the power of mining lobbyists in Queensland Mining remains one of the main pillars of the Australian economy, and the industry is eager to ensure its interests are represented on the political stage. With a new report claiming mining lobbyists are “punching well above their weight,” JP Casey considers the role of mining lobbyists in Australia. Read more. Mapping South Australia’s big mines and new projects South Australia is home to a number of massive mining operations, from significant uranium projects to the world’s largest zircon mine. The state also boasts a number of exciting new mining developments, including a project that aims to be the world’s largest graphite mine. JP Casey maps out the established projects and those on the horizon. Read more. Gold mining in Australia: 50 years of growth From the gold rush of the mid-19th century to record-breaking production in recent years, the Australian gold sector has always been one to watch. But can the success story continue? Ross Davies investigates. Read more. Eye in the sky: how satellite positioning could help Australian mines After an 18-month trial of Geoscience Australia’s Satellite-Based Augmentation, EY has published a report claiming that the tech could be worth A$6bn to the Australian economy. Umar Ali looks into the report and finds out more about the potential value of this tech for miners in Australia. Read more. Inside the University of Adelaide’s A$12.5m mining research centre The Australian government has announced A$12.5m in funding, from government reserves and industry organisations, to support a training centre at the University of Adelaide to educate miners and engineers in emerging technologies. JP Casey speaks to Peter Dowd, professor of mining engineering at the university’s School of Civil, Environmental and Mining Engineering about the funding, and how artificial intelligence and automation could impact the sector. Read more. Greening minerals transport for the climate emergency As the climate emergency becomes ever more pressing, mining companies are looking to more efficient methods of transport. Scarlett Evans looks at Australia’s industry efforts to clean up the minerals supply chain, spearheaded by BHP’s drive for LNG-fuelled transport. Read more. To combat China’s dominance of the supply of rare-earth metals, the US and Australia have partnered to encourage new production of these strategic commodities. We look into this partnership and other cases of industrial and trade collaboration between these two mining giants. A new report has predicted that the mining sector will need 21,000 new workers by 2024, putting significant pressure on projects to deliver long-term roles. We examine the findings and profile the jobs highest on the mining industry’s want list. Elsewhere, given the tailings dam collapse at the Cadia gold mine in March 2018, we ask whether its newly approved expansion is safe. Finally, we profile mining operations in New South Wales, map the ports critical to Australia’s mining economy, and take a look at the future of uranium mining in Australia. jQuery( document ).ready(function() {
												/* Companies carousel */
												jQuery('.carousel').slick({
												  dots: true,
												  infinite: true,
												  speed: 300,
												  lazyLoad: 'ondemand',
												  slidesToShow: 1,
												  slidesToScroll: 1,
												  adaptiveHeight: true
												});
											}); Enter your details here to receive your free whitepaper.