           A recent report from the UK Office of Science and Technology states that while the UK is dependent on imported critical minerals for many sectors there is no specific strategy for their supply. A worrying thought given recent trade wars and their implications for supply, we take a look at the possible risks. We also look at the state of mining in the Amazon, profiling the countries and players involved, and, in a world where coal mining is increasingly being phased out as renewables come to the fore, we examine the mining of coal and other minerals in Poland. Also in this issue, we assess the market dynamics and future prospects for nickel, size up mineral exploration in South Africa, and find out whether the UK’s biggest mining project is doomed. Plus, we ask whether global supply chains are prepared for automation following a report showing Australia alone could lose $32bn of value and 265,000 jobs if the supply chain doesn’t grow to meet the coming demands, and layout the timeline of events of the Pike River Disaster with a focus on the lessons learned. Click here to read the latest mining industry news and analysis, and join the conversation on Twitter. How dependant is the UK on critical minerals? A recent report from the UK Office of Science and Technology states that while the UK is dependent on imported critical minerals for a number of sectors, there is no specific strategy for their supply. Umar Ali takes a look at the key takeaways from the report. Read more. Mining and the Amazon rainforest: can they coexist? The Amazon Rainforest is one of the most contested spaces for mining in the world, and the impacts of both legal and illegal operations can be devastating for the environment and the indigenous groups that call it home. JP Casey looks at the state of mining in several countries across the Amazon, and asks whether anyone is doing it sustainably. Read more. Poland: how long can the coal mining frenzy continue? As the issue of climate change becomes a societal and political battleground, can Europe’s coal producing powerhouse find a way to balance its environmental responsibilities whilst maintaining its long-held mining tradition? Andrew Tunnicliffe asks, is Poland doing enough and, if not, what does the future hold? Read more. The future of nickel: tensions, trade bans and technology It’s an interesting time for nickel on the global markets. Prices have risen dramatically despite trade tensions between the US and China, and are expected to explode as Indonesia and the Philippines prepare for nickel export bans. Umar Ali assesses the market dynamics of this important metal. Read more. Sizing up mining exploration in South Africa The South African Government is intent on promoting the image of the country’s mining sector as that of a ‘sunrise industry’ despite years of falling production, strikes and upheaval. So what can be done to revive the industry? And where should miners be looking? Scarlett Evans finds out. Read more. Get Sirius: can the UK’s biggest mining project be saved? Sirius Minerals has cancelled a $500m bond sale to finance its polyhalite mine in North Yorkshire, citing economic conditions and uncertainty around Brexit. Can the UK’s biggest mining project be saved? Julian Turner talks to Humphrey Knight, potash analyst at business intelligence firm CRU. Read more. Mining in a world of automation: is the supply chain ready? The mining supply chain must act fast or miss out on the opportunities Industry 4.0 and automation offer, warns a new report. Andrew Tunnicliffe talks with METS Ignite CEO Adrian Beer about the situation in Australia, and what needs to be done to take full advantage. Read more. Pike River Disaster: a decade of reparations and recovery In 2010, four methane gas explosions rocked the Pike River coal mine, killing 29 workers and triggering the worst mining accident in New Zealand for close to a century. JP Casey charts the responses and recovery over the last nine years. Read more. Tech-heavy societies require a lot of different metals, but where do they get them from? In the next issue, we zoom in on Japan to find out where the country sources its metals and what the future holds for the Japanese mining industry. In Africa, we take a look at the history of seabed mining in Namibia and find out if any lessons can be learned for those seeking to exploit minerals in even deeper waters. We also examine the longer-term prospects for miners jumping on board the lithium boom and ask who the major players are in the race for copper. We also speak to Platinum Group Metals CEO R Michael Jones to find out more about the company’s future plans at Waterberg, hear from TechMet CEO Brian Menell about the Vanadium Holdings project, revisit some of the Outotec Research Center’s most significant achievements, and find out how mining companies can get involved with collaborative approaches to achieving social transitioning objectives.
										    		                                    
											
											jQuery( document ).ready(function() {
												/* Companies carousel */
												jQuery('.carousel').slick({
												  dots: true,
												  infinite: true,
												  speed: 300,
												  lazyLoad: 'ondemand',
												  slidesToShow: 1,
												  slidesToScroll: 1,
												  adaptiveHeight: true
												});
											});