Atlas Copco has announced a new addition to its QAC range of containerised generators, the QAC 1450 TwinPower™ delivers unrivalled versatility, optimised performance and excellent fuel economy in demanding Modular Power Plant (MPP) applications. The QAC 1450 TwinPower is a 20ft ISO containerised unit housing two compact 725kVA generators; powered by V8 Scania engines with double bearing alternators. This configuration, with its fast-paralleling system, allows the two generators to work independently or in parallel with each other. Furthermore, the system is fully EU compliant. Atlas Copco Power and Flow division product marketing manager Sergio Salvador commented: “From full load to low load, our TwinPower concept provides the same output, performance and efficiency as a single generator package, thereby achieving up to 10% in fuel savings. “In essence, two generators, which are powered by smaller engines, behave as one large one; while providing far more flexibility and contributing to a lower overall cost of ownership.” The QAC 1450 is equipped with a centralised control and monitoring system that is both easy-to-use and configure. This is facilitated by two Qc4003 digital controllers that feature intuitive touchscreens, and a choice of island or PMS (Power Management System) modes. For enhanced flexibility, and so it can tackle larger jobs if required, the QAC 1450 can either run as a standalone unit, in parallel with other generators, or in parallel with mains power. Capable of operating continuously in challenging conditions, including high altitude environments, the containerised TwinPower generator system features an intelligent cooling system that ensures optimised performance at temperature up to 50°C. Ease of service was a prime consideration during the design of the TwinPower system, with large access doors and custom service tools helping to maximise uptime. The service requirement is less than two hours of maintenance for every 500 hours of operation. Furthermore, due to the twin power concept, it is possible to still benefit from 50% of the unit’s total capacity during maintenance operations. Developed with key customers in mind, and manufactured to perform under the most demanding conditions within mining, construction, transport, oil and gas and utilities’ applications, the QAC1450 is designed to meet and exceed international approval specifications, including ISO 8528, and is compliant with all current EU safety and environmental regulations. Atlas Copco’s TwinPower operating principle is based around the concept of two generators, with two independent engines, inside one box. The QAC 1450 is the latest model to be launched and follows on from the successful TwinPower introduction in 2016. More models, with specific applications and customer groups in-mind, will follow throughout 2018.