The award-winning global manufacturer of gear and bearing pullers, Posi Lock Puller, is proudly announcing a new brand identity for its company and brands, at the eve of the world’s largest industry fair – Germany’s HANNOVER MESSE. “Following the incredibly successful opening of the European warehouse and showroom, back in February, and our forthcoming expansion plans around the world – it was an opportune time for us to introduce to the world our new graphic identity, reflecting our heritage of innovation dating back 40+ years,” said Tamara Somerville, CEO of Posi Lock Puller, Inc. Posi Lock’s new brand identity includes a refreshed look and feel, including a beautiful new logo that reflects the core principles of the brand – strength, speed and safety. The new iconic imagery highlights the company’s patented ‘Safety Cage’ design, through which Posi Lock has set the standard for safety, durability and simplicity of use for more than four decades. The company will unveil a new website soon. In 1974, Dean Somerville, the founder of Posi Lock, was operating a machinery repair shop and a farming operation in the small North Dakota town of McHenry. With his inventive spirit and mechanical background, Somerville saw the need for a self-aligning, universal puller that could remove gears and bearings safely and quickly. His new puller design included a Safety Cage® that would control the opening and closing of the pulling jaws, as well as provide the tool with clamping pressure. The new caged puller was patented in 1977 and given the name ‘Posi Lock® Puller’, for its unparalleled clamping design. Till date, Posi Lock design and features remain the leader in its field. “Our new brand identity is represented by a new logo celebrating the core product and heritage, bold color schemes and a new company presentation is a salute to Dean Somerville’s creation, our unique family-oriented corporate culture and a strong signal of the company’s bold new ambitions to grow globally,” said Tamara Somerville. Discover the new Posi Lock at the Joint Pavilion of EPTDA-PTDA, Hall 24, Stand B35 in Booth 23.