Modular Mining, the global leader in the delivery of real-time computer-based mine management solutions, will implement its DISPATCH® Fleet Management and ProVision® Machine Guidance systems at Anglo American’s Barro Alto open-pit nickel mine, located in the state of Goiás, Brazil. Anglo selected the DISPATCH and ProVision systems to improve material blending, ore management, and crusher throughput. The solutions will reduce the ore dilution, boost blending of the ore directly from the pit into the crusher, and optimize the fleet performance. The DISPATCH Fleet Management System (FMS), chosen to replace the mine’s current competitive FMS, will optimize the haulage fleet to increase productivity. The ProVision system will deliver high-precision navigation and machine guidance capabilities to the mine’s shovels; automating the management of material types, reducing the need for manual staking, and reducing the number of stockpiles. In addition, the ProVision system will provide real-time tonnage, volume, and grade metrics for any ore-bearing stockpile. Modular Mining’s Material Blending, Prestart, and Fuel Management modules will extend the FMS’ equipment- and material management capabilities. “A number of factors contributed to our decision to partner with Modular Mining,” said Eduardo Caixeta, Manager, Barro Alto. “In addition to their solid reputation with their fleet management and high-precision guidance technologies, the success that we have had with their solutions at our sister operation at Minas Rio played a key role in our decision. Another factor was Modular’s demonstrated commitment to performance, working with their customers to maximize the value from their solutions based on a mine’s specific goals.” “Modular has a long-standing relationship with Anglo in Brazil and we are excited to expand this relationship,” said Airton de Sena, General Manager, Modular Mining, Brazil. “Barro Alto is a leader in nickel mining, and this investment demonstrates their team’s commitment to maximizing returns through operational excellence and advanced technologies.”