IntelliSense.io, the Industrial AI company, today announced at the International ‘Astana Mining & Metallurgy’ Congress; Kazakhstan’s first Digital Plant has recently become operational at Aktogay demonstrating the implementation of AI-powered brains.app platform for the Grinding Circuit that predicts ball charge, liner wear and prevents overloads resulting in improved process transparency and reduction of mill stoppages. The Intellisense-LAB Technological Development Center, established jointly with Tech Garden and Intellisense.io, is driving forward The National Digitization Plan positioning Kazakhstan at the forefront of Industry 4.0 technology development. The deployment at Aktogay gold extraction plant of the Kazakhstan national company JSC ‘AK Altynalmas’ is one of the seven model plants sanctioned by the government to demonstrate the benefits of these technologies for the wider industry. “This breakthrough use of AI as part of brains.app is set to act as a benchmark for our operations and allows our staff to make the work of the factory transparent, predictable and reduce downtime, which should lead to the maximum benefit from the Akotgay production site.” stated Zhanar Amanzholova, Vice-President of IT and Corporate Development of JSC ‘AK Altynalmas’, Head of the Project ‘Digital Mine’. “We are currently piloting and in the future, in accordance with the results we plan to introduce the technology in other operational processes in order to optimize the production at our Aktogay site.” The IntelliSense.io team was tasked with the following key tasks: reducing mill shutdowns, reducing the frequency of overload of the mill, and predicting the timing of liner replacements. “Thanks to the AI’s ability to perform predictive analysis based on operating data, we expect to receive real time information of the ball charge and liner condition which should lead to a reduction in emergency downtime. As a result, we estimate that the overall economic effect of the system implementation should generate a payback on the investment in this project in a short timeframe,” explains Daryn Munsyzbayev, Head of the Altynalmas Project. “The Grinding Circuit Optimization Application provides a digital twin of the SAG Mill & Grinding Circuit that serves as a modeling environment to optimize the mill process without interrupting operations. The brains.app software powered by Artificial Intelligence predicts mill performance in the range of ten minutes, identifying possible overload events,” explains Andrei Tyan, Director of the Intellisense-LAB Technology Development Center. The Grinding Circuit Optimization Application builds on IntelliSense.io’s portfolio of mine to market applications available which target specific processes in the value chain. It will be possible to meet with IntelliSense.io at their booth in the AMM Congress hall, stand No.9, attendees are also invited to attend a presentation from Altynalmas and Tech Garden at 2:30pm June 12th.