PR Polymers prides itself on being an Australian Manufacturer of our ‘KoolKap Down Under’ range of blast/gas bags. Operator risk in support of a ‘reduced carbon footprint’ are all considerations through design and chemical composition. Our ‘ChemAlert Green’ KoolKap patented DME brew has a Global Warming potential of one versus offshore HFC based blast bags of 1,430. A conclusive separation, solution and benefit to support Climate Change in Australia through KoolKap. Hydrofluorocarbon’s (HFC’s) are chemicals that contain hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, and carbon. Little to no education is out there in understanding the bulk contribution caused to Global Warming and our environment when using HFC based blast bags. Emphasis to the phase-down of HFC has been directly pointed at more commonly used equipment such as air conditioners for commercial and residential use, as well the automotive Industry. Licensing and high governing regulations are in place with very complex waste management controls. Fines do apply to direct and deliberate release under the Australian Ozone and Synthetic Greenhouse Management Act. Imported HFC134a blast bags simply fly under the radar as a ‘bulk import’ and rawness gave to their application and exposures through use. A good blast may attain the 3,000°C temperatures in the initiation zone for only 1-2milliseconds, insufficient to produce the decomposition required under the Montréal Protocol, which requires greater than 99.9% efficiency. Strict guidelines to waste disposal through a plasma arch unit of 3,000°C for 20 milliseconds apply. This clearly identifies not every blast can be guaranteed to decompose HFC? Over 300t of HFC134a blast bags are sold in Australia with a GWP of 1430 which could morph in blasting to as much as 1.3Mt of carbon equivalents per year. Blast bags used in applications of top-hole bagging, gamma logging/borehole logging and even bags DTH where current methods of disposal are piercing the bag in a ventilated area to dispose of as potentially landfill is a ‘complete disregard’ to direct and unregulated exposures and governing protocol for waste and risk management of HFC134a. The best and safest choice toward a ‘reduced carbon footprint’ with a lower operator and climate exposure is KoolKap.