For many mining organisations and their service providers, skillset, assessment and authorisation management is a wild problem. The workforce is large, many different competencies are required, competencies expire and need refreshing at different frequencies, workforce turnover is high with a large proportion of contractors used. Additionally, much of the work is in hazardous or complex environments, the work areas change often as new areas open-up or as existing areas need major (shutdown) maintenance. The workforce needs to be capable and assessed as competent to do the work safely and efficiently: Everyone needs to be compliant with a wide array of national industry standards and also operate within state legislative requirements. Further to these challenges is the rapid pace of change in the mining industry. To help keep across these changes and the opportunity to meet participants in the industry Tutis is exhibiting at the Queensland Mining Industry Health & Safety Conference at the Gold Coast from 18 to 21 August 2019. If you are attending the conference please visit us, we will be at Exhibition Booth 48. Tutis focuses on these wild problems by providing a holistic workforce compliance solution designed to work with systems typically used in the mining industry. As such Tutis integrates with ERP HR systems (SAP, Oracle, IBM etc), external safety systems, LMS and gate access systems. The Tutis solution incorporates many innovations (eg direct integration to the national skills standards database for easy mapping to assessments, online/offline tablet-based assessments, functionality for reviewing competency currency refreshers etc.), configurable rules-based messaging, workflow and automation. The core of the Tutis solution is the Assessment-Authorisation-Access Permission functionality, this provides the integrity and reliability to properly control compliance and site access. It also supports skillset management; training management; and it has its own Learning Management System (LMS) or can integrate with an LMS of your choice. Tutis has two software solutions and also provide consulting advice, enablement/implementation of the solutions and end-user training. TUTIS_Enterprise solution is a workforce compliance solution for large enterprises such as mining companies. It is a cloud-based software solution with features across multiple business functions designed for enterprises. Features include on-boarding of staff and contractors, skillset management, Assessments mapped to national standards, Learning Management, full training records management, and Paperless Authorisation and Access. TUTIS_Train solution is training compliance solution for training providers (eg RTOs). It is a cloud-based software solution with features across the business functions such as training, elearning, assessment and reporting activities. TUTIS_Train is a single, integrated TMS, SMS, CRM, RPL, LMS, Assessment and Reporting software solution. Reporting includes AVETMISS and RAPT compliance reports and configurable dashboards. Tutis On-boarding Managed Service is a remote, pre-site on-boarding service which Tutis operates for you by doing the data entry, enquiry, evidence review and collection, assessment, reporting and administration functions for you using TUTIS solution to ensure staff and contractors arrive on-site compliant and available to work. Let the Tutis managed services team help take the complexity out of the operational side of skillset and training compliance management. Our team members are experienced in managing all administrative aspects of onboarding and assessments, plus are Subject Matter Experts (SME) in using the Tutis software products.