The dictum, Make Haste Slowly certainly applies to innovation in the mining sector. Modern times demand innovation, but a wrong move made too quickly can be a costly and major set back. DomeShelter Australia’s Container Mounted Fabric Shelters have been in the market for over 25 years. They have slowly and carefully established a worldwide market, providing workshop and warehouse solutions to some of the world’s leading mining companies. The Fabric Shelter was innovative two decades ago, but has proven itself time and again as a cost-effective and functional shelter solution in some of the remotest and harshest mining environments. The evolution of high-quality, UV-resistant, tear-proof and fire-resistant fabrics was the tipping point to take these shelters into the mainstream supply chain. 25 years as a proven workhorse on mining and industrial sites in all types of harsh weather, including cyclones has established these shelter solutions as a mainstream product, no longer just a new gimmick. Fabric Shelters are widely used as an alternative to traditional steel sheds. They can be ready to ship within days of order, are cheaper and easier to transport in kit form to site and can be installed with relative ease by the client’s own teams. The consequent lower total cost of ownership is a key reason many companies are preferring DomeShelter™ Structures. All DomeShelter™ Structures are designed and engineered to withstand the wind conditions prevalent in the shelter location, even up to the highest level cyclonic winds typical for instance in Australia’s north-west region. Typical uses include large and small equipment workshops, warehouse and materials storage, staff amenities and small aircraft hangars. Height is achieved by mounting the arched roof on standard sea containers, which can be stacked one, two or three high, which also provides secure tool storage and office space. End walls and equipment access doors can be added. DomeShelter Australia recommends a close look at their Fabric Shelter solution for your next project. Standard and custom design shelters can be found across Africa, the Middle East, Europe and South America, as well as Australia. Make an enquiry today.