For standard filtration applications, when a short delivery lead-time and safe, reliable operation are top of the priority list, the new Outotec FP-S filter press fits the bill perfectly. It offers efficient solid-liquid separation, is available in a wide range of configurations, and is backed by Outotec’s expert technical services to ensure reliable process performance and long equipment lifetime. To extend the scope of filter press offerings to customers, Outotec has launched the FP-S filter press, which features a standard design and options for short lead times and reduced capital expenditure for customers. Cost-effective filtration from the industry leader Outotec has a long and successful history in the design and manufacture of filtration equipment for a wide variety of industrial applications, and this extensive experience has been proven invaluable in the development of the Outotec FP-S filter press. “Our goal is to develop a standard design for filter presses, which would enable us to offer a cost-effective option for straightforward applications that could be manufactured and delivered within a short timescale,” says Geoff Foster, Director Filters at Outotec. “The new Outotec FP-S Filter Press offers the same safety, reliability, and quality as all our other filtration solutions, but is designed for less demanding applications that don’t require product tailoring to meet the exact need of each process.” The Outotec FP-S filter press is ideal for a broad range of applications including filtration in bulk mining, tailings, metallurgical refineries, industrial minerals, food, pharma, and biotechnology. It is available with filtration areas ranging from 1m² to 1,000m². Standard design and options offer safe and reliable performance The filter press is available in side-bar and overhead-beam configurations. The overhead-beam option offers reliable operation for harsh environments with corrosive slurry residues and features a top single-point shifting device to help prevent non-synchronous movement of the overhead shifter. The shifting movement is precise, smooth, and easy to adjust, with reduced wear resulting in a longer component lifetime. Each filter can be delivered complete with piping, valves, and instruments (optional); the main piping can be factory-commissioned to speed up on-site commissioning. Customers can choose from a range of safety device options, including light curtains, a pull-wire switch to protect against the mechanical movement, and movable or fixed splash guards to protect operators from coming into contact with the hot or toxic slurry. The Outotec FP-S filter features Siemens control and an HMI system for easy, stable operation. The control system can be configured according to the operating condition and process requirements. Thanks to the modular design of the Outotec FP-S filter press, it can be configured with optional accessories to meet the requirements in standard filtration applications. Outotec’s scope of supply can cover everything from filtration process design to filter press and ancillary equipment selection, installation and commissioning, and spare parts supply. The Outotec FP-S filter press complements the Outotec Filter Press Family, which includes the Outotec Larox® FP filter press with a long track record for delivering premium performance and flexibility for demanding applications.