Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology’s new DD320S is a two-boom, hydraulic controlled development drill, engineered to excel in demanding underground conditions and various drilling applications. The new rig utilizes state-of-the-art Sandvik technology, resulting in unbeatable reliability and performance. Sandvik offers a wide range of underground drilling jumbos covering various applications, from small-scale mine development to large-scale tunnelling needs. The very latest development in this series is the new Sandvik DD320S. Based on Sandvik’s unsurpassed experience in underground drilling, it is designed using proven components, systems and controls that provide a safer, more productive workplace for both operators and maintenance teams. “The new Sandvik DD320S is designed to meet the needs of both mining and tunnelling construction customers, customers who appreciate high drilling performance together with reliability and low operating costs through proven components and simplicity of design,” explains Johannes Välivaara, Product Manager for Underground Development Drills at Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology. Proven technology At the heart of the new Sandvik DD320S is proven technology which utilizes some well-known components such as THC560 hydraulic drilling controls, B26XLF boom and HLX5 rock drill that will ensure long running hours with minimum downtime. Also, its carrier components, such as the diesel engine and layout, are very similar to well- known Sandvik DD321 technologies, ensuring common service principles and spare parts across the whole fleet. Efficient drilling system Sandvik DD320S provides unbeatable drilling performance and reliability, with highly proven THC560 hydraulic controls and HLX5 rock drill (20kW impact power), designed for robust heavy duty drilling and bolting applications which delivers great reliability and low operating costs, optimized for 43mm – 64mm diameter boreholes and 76mm – 127mm reaming holes. Safety in mind Sandvik DD320S is available with an optional FOPS / ROPS (ISO 3449 / 3471) operator cabin and comes with ergonomic handrails and with anti-slip surface stairs as standard. The platform provides a comfortable drilling control and tramming stations, (optional) movement prevention switch and access detector, as well as a new compressor thermal monitoring system. All in all, the new Sandvik DD320S is a simplified and cost-effective solution to customers who require reliable performance in underground development drilling, based on proven Sandvik technology and process know-how. The drill has already been widely tested in cooperation with Sargin Construction and Machinery Inc., operating as a mine contractor at Esan Balya Mine, located in the western part of Turkey. “The outcome of the tests at Balya mine showed us that the drilling performance and reliability of Sandvik DD320S were well above the given benchmark compared to other OEM machines operating at the same mine site. At the end of the trial, both we and the customer were very impressed about the figures”, Välivaara concludes.