 Techenomics is distributing the IFWS2 products, which have been developed by Nanotech Industrial Solutions Inc (NIS), throughout its network and is also exclusive worldwide mining distributor. The science of IFWS2 in the use of inorganic fullerene-like tungsten disuphide (IFWS2) particles is making a real difference to productivity around the world – improving oil life and performance, lowering fuel consumption, reducing maintenance costs and cutting emissions. IFWS2 can also have a major impact on productivity in Indonesia – in mining, transport, industry, power generation and marine applications. Recognising the many benefits IFWS2 can bring to Indonesia, PT Tekenomiks Indonesia is stepping up efforts to increase awareness while introducing operators throughout the archipelago to the product. Techenomics CEO Chris Adsett says: “These tiny particles are producing amazing results but it’s science, not magic.” Techenomics ongoing formal independent testing along with unofficial trials in the field is repeatedly demonstrating that the science works. “We are extending our presence in Jakarta to bring IFWS2 to the attention of the movers and shakers of mining, industry and transport in Indonesia.” Techenomics is remodelling its office in Jakarta to accommodate new employees, including a new Business Development Manager (BDM) responsible for growing awareness of use of IFWS2. The BDM’s role will also incorporate promoting and developing the company’s use of digital data to enhance its total fluid management services. Chris Adsett says Indonesian operators all want to optimise their procedures to increase output while minimising their environmental footprint and, importantly, without cost increases. “Adding IFWS2 to your lubricant increases productivity and for a minimal outlay, reduces costs in relation to oil and fuel use as well as reduced maintenance and downtime.” The IFWS2 particles, which are spherical in nature, act like ball bearings between metal surfaces. By forming a protective micro-layer on metal surfaces, IFWS2 prevents these surfaces from coming into contact, thus reducing friction and lowering operating temperatures. Through the tests and trials in various mining, industrial and transport scenarios, Techenomics is proving that IFWS2 saves energy, increases oil life, lowers fuel consumption, reduces component wear and suppresses emissions. With more trials and tests planned, Techenomics aims to prepare accurate case studies which in the future will help customers understand the short-term and long-term benefits of IFWS2 for their assets. This extensive work by Techenomics backs up the research and testing undertaken by NIS.