RPMGlobal has reached a significant milestone as the organisation celebrates 50 years of delivering premier consulting and advisory services to the global mining industry. During this time, RPMGlobal has earned a strong reputation as the go-to technology and consulting company for miners of all sizes having undertaken over 16,000 mining studies, while its software solutions have more than 4,500 global users. From its humble beginnings when Pincock Allen & Holt was established, RPMGlobal has emerged as the market leader in end-to-end enterprise solutions, providing cutting-edge scheduling, simulation, costing and execution solutions across production and maintenance, built on the industry’s only Enterprise Planning Framework (EPF). RPMGlobal has gone from strength-to-strength, cementing its position as an industry leader in software, advisory and professional development solutions. Today, the company has grown into the largest publicly traded independent group of mining technical experts in the world, and a pre-eminent supplier of technical software to all sectors of the industry. Reflecting on the company’s 50th anniversary, RPMGlobal Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Richard Mathews said the company had remained true to its founding principles of providing deep domain expertise combined with industry-leading technology to the global mining sector. “What the company has achieved since the launch of its first mining solutions product, Talpac, more than 40 years ago is testament to our passionate employees and strong executive leadership who continue to drive the company forward,” he said. “RPMGlobal is deeply embedded in the mining industry and we are very proud to be able to continue supporting our customer’s along their journey as the industry advances.” As the leading enterprise and consultancy provider to the mining industry for five consecutive decades, RPMGlobal’s expert advice and solutions have helped companies achieve value at every step of the mining value chain. More recently, the acceleration of new investments in both software development and in strategic software acquisitions have strengthened the company’s position as leaders across scheduling, maintenance, execution, simulation and financial budgeting and costing technology. “We are investing in technology solutions that enable our customers to move data inside and outside their enterprises. Intelligent mining is the future of the industry, and RPMGlobal is creating new benchmarks for the software of the future,” Mr Mathews said. By the same token, RPMGlobal’s Consultancy & Advisory division’s reputation for independent assessment and financier due diligence roles remains second to none, with demand for the company’s mining advisory services increasing.
RPMGlobal now has more than 300 employees working across the globe to fulfil its mission of transforming mining operations and delivering operational excellence. “I would like to extend a huge thank you to our past and present staff, customers, suppliers, partners and supporters who have helped make RPMGlobal what it is today,” Mr Mathews said. Mr Mathews concluded by saying the company had continued to thrive in the face of many turbulent market cycles and was looking forward to accelerating the delivery of its innovative software solutions and expert advisory services to the mining sector.