GIW Industries has been selected for the delivery of four MDX 600 cyclone feed pumps for the Quellaveco project in Peru. GIW won the order based on the reputation of its centrifugal slurry pumps and the firm’s commitment to customer support. Decades of experience in slurry transport means GIW is in the perfect position to partner with Quellaveco. Peru boasts an extensive mining history. The country is the largest producer of gold and the second-largest producer of copper, zinc, and silver in South America. Their silver reserves are the largest in the world. “Economic stability and continuous growth in the country have facilitated the investment of new mining projects. Over the years, Peru has become a key player in the global market, and that is why we are proud to be involved in this project,” says Hernan Palavecino, South America Region Manager. The Quellaveco project marks a significant milestone for GIW as they continue to invest in the region. In 2018, GIW expanded its service capabilities in South America to meet the needs of its current and future customers. Local GIW technicians will be on-site to assist Quellaveco for the installation, commissioning, and start-up of the four MDX 600 cyclone feed pumps. The MDX pump was selected for the Quellaveco project because of its success in copper and gold applications around the world. The MDX product line has undergone extensive development; in fact, the latest technology features a remotely adjusted mechanical suction liner (RAMSL). The pumps for Quellaveco are specially designed to operate in the most extreme duty conditions. Critical wear parts are made of GIW’s proprietary white-iron alloy, Endurasite. This material extends wear life and optimizes pump performance. These features combined have a direct impact on Quellaveco’s total cost of ownership — proving the MDX is the most reliable pump on the market. “GIW recognizes the importance of the Quellaveco mine to the region. The Greenfield project solidifies Peru’s position as a substantial player in the South American and global mining markets. The award is a result of GIW’s drive for continuous improvements in slurry technologies. We are committed to offering high-quality service while building a long-term partnership with Quellaveco,” says Mr Palavecino.