The LOESCHE cement grinding plant for the customer CYCNA, part of the La Cruz Azul group, was successfully commissioned in Tepezalá, Mexico. Mid-2019, installation will commence of two more LOESCHE coal grinding plants for petroleum coke grinding in Lagunas and Hidalgo. In 2016, LOESCHE supplied the Tepezalá cement plant of customer CYCNA, which belongs to the Cooperativa La Cruz Azul, S.C.L. with a complete cement grinding plant with a LOESCHE mill of the type LM 46.2+2 CS, which was successfully commissioned in August 2018. The mill’s operating results have been exceptional from the very beginning. The guaranteed grinding capacity of 110t/h for the cement locations CPC 40 was far exceeded with 140t/h. Both LOESCHE and the customer, CYCNA, were very pleased with the excellent collaboration as part of the project management in Tepezalá. Two more LOESCHE coal grinding plants for La Cruz Azul In 2018, LOESCHE sold two coal grinding plants of one of the largest coal-mill types, type LM 41.4 D, for grinding petroleum coke to the Cooperativa La Cruz Azul group. These coal mills are to be used in two more of the client’s plants: in the Hidalgo province, 80km north of Mexico City, and in the Lagunas plant in the Oaxaca province in southern Mexico. Cooperativa La Cruz Azul is establishing a new cement production line in each of the plants. At the Hidalgo plant, which has a production capacity of 3Mtpa of cement, in the future not only the new line, but also all existing kiln lines, will be supplied with ground pet coke from the LOESCHE mill. In addition to the mill with a capacity of 50-65t/h, LOESCHE will also supply process gas filters, mill fans, inertisation units, explosion flaps, cyclone separators, conveyor augers and drag chain conveyors, as well as the complete electrotechnical equipment. The scope of supply also includes the complete detail engineering for the steel and concrete construction. An interesting characteristic sets the location in Hidalgo apart from the rest: the customer’s cement plant is located 2,300m above sea level in the mountains of Mexico. This altitude was taken into account when sizing and selecting the aggregates to be supplied, especially when selecting the motors and electrical system. The equipment has already been fully dispatched. Installation is planned to start in December 2019 in Hidalgo. Installation of the grinding plant in Lagunas will start in July 2019. The client is now relying on innovative LOESCHE technology and the exceptionally good cooperation across a total of three of its plants in Hidalgo, Lagunas and Tepezalá. LOESCHE has for decades been a specialist in vertical roller mills for grinding pet coke. This is one of the reasons why La Cruz Azul, S.C.L. has chosen LOESCHE. LOESCHE places great emphasis on the active personal engagement of the employees of the La Cruz Azul group. The good cooperation between the client and LOESCHE, as well as the strategic alignment with growth, innovation and progress, has laid the foundation for the Cruz Azul group to remain a leading cement manufacturer in Mexico in the future.