GeoSonics/Vibra-Tech is pleased to host Re:Con 2020 on January 12-15, 2020 at the Margaritaville Resort & Marina in Key West, Florida, US. Re:Con 2020 is the premier conference for managing blasting risk.  Learn to protect your company, communicate with the public, improve blasting efficiency and control vibration from the experts in vibration and acoustic monitoring. Keynote speaker Nicholas Boothman spent more than 35 years studying the way people connect, communicate face-to-face and collaborate through teamwork. He will share what he has learned, teaching us ways we can maximize our interactions with the community to make positive and lasting impressions to help us connect quicker and ultimately improve neighbor relations. A Licensed Master-Practitioner of Neuro Linguistic Programming, Mr. Boothman is the author of four best-selling books, ‘How to Make People Like You in 90 Seconds or Less’, ‘How to Connect in Business in 90 Seconds or Less’, ‘How to Make Someone Fall in Love with You in 90 Minutes or Less’ and ‘Convince Them in 90 Seconds’. British by birth, North American by location, and Universal in his message, Nicholas Boothman brings a fresh perspective to connecting face-to-face in this impersonal age of high technology. In addition, the conference will feature presentations by experts in the blasting and vibration fields. Re:Con 2020 is the 9th conference hosted by GeoSonics/Vibra-Tech on blasting technology.  Registration to attend Re:Con 2020 is $1,695.  Continuing education credits are available. Visit geosonicsvibratech.com/recon2020 to learn more and register for Re:Con 2020. GeoSonics/Vibra-Tech has been providing blast and vibration consulting services to help manage risk for mining, construction and energy clients throughout the world. Since 1949, our experts have monitored millions of blasts, helped customers manage and control ground vibrations on critical projects and documented thousands of structures. Our Re:mote Monitoring Technology has now expanded beyond vibration to include dust monitoring, sound monitoring and environmental monitoring.