Brokk introduces another new machine at Bauma in Munich. This follows last year’s introduction of four new models and extends the Brokk SmartPower™ lineup of machines. The new BROKK 70 is the perfect solution for bringing safe, mechanized and efficient demolition to the most confined spaces. Compared to its predecessor, the Brokk 70 packs more than 100% more demolition power, comes with the latest innovative Brokk SmartPower™ technology, as well as a powerful and fine-tuned hydraulic system. The Brokk 70 is a testament to the technical advancements of Brokk over the last decade. It takes Brokk’s signature expertise in bringing maximum power into a small package, to the smallest demolition robot in the world. The innovative Brokk SmartPower™ electric powertrain increases its power from 5.5kW to 9.8kW and enables the demolition robot to power twice the size breaker as its predecessor. Taken together this leads to a 100% increase in demolition power over its predecessor, the Brokk 60. The combination of Brokk SmartPower™ technology and Brokk’s upgraded hydraulic design leads to both smoother and more precise movements, making the machine smother and faster to operate than ever before. Furthermore, the stronger hydraulics and completely redesigned mechanics of the machine enables it to carry and wield heavier and more powerful attachments. The Brokk 70 comes with several brand new attachments. The new Brokk BHB105 breaker weighs in at over 100kg and comes with advanced features such as water spray to suppress dust and air cooling for hot environments. The new Brokk BDC40 drum cutter brings real cutting power to the smallest segment of demolition robots for the first time. And the new Brokk G32 demolition grapple is the tool of choice for more efficient soft demolition. Still, the Brokk 70 keeps the same extremely compact dimensions as its predecessor. All this power and technology comes in a package that weighs only 560kg, fits through the narrowest doorways and can be transported in an ordinary passenger elevator. And very importantly, it still runs on only a 16A fuse. “The Brokk 70 takes Brokk’s power-to-weight ratio to new heights enabled by the unique Brokk SmartPower™ technology. And with its compact dimensions, it is truly a demotion robot that eliminates all need for manual demolition work,” says Martin Krupicka, CEO of Brokk Group.