Delegation from the largest coal-mining concern of India Coal India Limited has visited IZ-KARTEX. The chairman of Coal India Mr Anil Jha was heading the delegation. The guests have visited the production site and discussed possible stages of cooperation in supplying of mining equipment manufactured by companies from UZTM-KARTEX group. During the business meeting, top-managers of Coal India have told to UZTM-KARTEX representatives about the corporation’s plans to increase production volumes, which will require the renewal of fleet of mining equipment.  According to Mr Anil Jha words, now the company holds several tenders at once for draglines and electromechanical shovels. In future, the company will need shovels of larger capacity – more than 35m³. UZTM-KARTEX sales director Mr Andrey Ganin has noted that the enterprises of UZTM-KARTEX group have sufficient competence and are ready to realize any projects. What is more, the sides have discussed the plans of UZTM-KARTEX to localize the shovels’ production in India. Partial production of imported equipment in the territory of India is one of the tenders’ requirements. At that time, UZTM-KARTEX (that unites the leading Russian shovels manufacturers – IZ-KARTEX and Uralmashplant) has already opened the branch in Kolkata and started to search the site for production. “India is one of the leaders in coal mining. Our company is interested to localize the production in India due to intensive development of mining industry and the large fleet of already operated shovels manufactured by UZTM-KARTEX companies.” The representatives of Coal India mentioned that machines manufactured by UZTM-KARTEX (draglines from Uralmashplant and EKG-10 from IZ-KARTEX) show high working results and completely correspond to its characteristics. In addition, the delegation from Coal India Ltd saw the production capacities of IZ-KARTEX. “I’m very impressed with the production site of your enterprise. The quality of every product begins from the workshop and the newest equipment and modern technologies that we have seen today, inspire the trust. I’ve been to a lot of enterprises in China and Europe and can tell that not everyone has the production of such a high level,” said Mr Anil Jha.