In grinding applications time is money, so fast start-up and high availability are top priorities. The new Outotec® MH Series Grinding Mill range offers flexible and easily deployable solutions that are cost-effective and easy to operate and maintain. Along with the new mill offering, Outotec is also introducing the Outotec® Polymer Hydrostatic Shoe Bearing (HSB) system, designed to maximise grinding mill availability and simplify maintenance. Outotec® MH Series Grinding Mills offer a cost-effective and easy to operate and maintain grinding solution across the mill lifecycle. The series includes a range of SAG, ball, and rod mills in standardised sizes with a capacity of up to 3.1MW installed power. All mills in the range use Outotec’s proven and robust technology to ensure safe and reliable operation. Standardised design for shorter lead times and lower costs While MH Series mills feature a standardised design, where some parameters are fixed in order to keep manufacturing costs and delivery lead times to a minimum, they still offer a range of configurable options for elements such as the shell, bearings, feed chute, and rock box, as well as the drive arrangements. “Our MH Series mills are an ideal choice for customers who value faster overall delivery and lower CAPEX over extensive tailoring and customization options. Put simply, with these mills customers benefit from a mill that gets the job done, is easy to operate and maintain, and has been designed based on Outotec’s vast comminution know-how,” says Carl-David Johansson, Product Manager, Grinding business line. MH Series mills are compatible with the optional Outotec mill control system, which features the latest in state-of-the-art technology and is the preferred control option for all Outotec grinding mills. Maximising revenue and cutting OPEX with durable, low-maintenance bearings The Outotec® Polymer HSB system is fitted to all new Outotec grinding mills as standard and is designed to maximise grinding mill availability and simplify maintenance, increasing revenue and reducing maintenance costs. The system significantly improves the reliability and longevity of both radial and axial pads compared to bronze or white-metal pad bearing systems, eliminating failures associated with surface-to-surface contact caused by journal defects, lock-charge starts or hydraulic system failures. The state-of-the-art self-aligning capability ensures that the pads are always precisely aligned with the mill journal, helping to protect the longevity of the mill by distributing stresses more evenly across the support structure and mill body. “Outotec Polymer HSB systems have clocked up over 7.5 million hours of production with zero hours lost due to bearing failure. The Outotec Polymer HSB system is a field-proven example of our technological leadership in grinding mills,” says Tuomas Tani, Technical Product Manager, Grinding business line.