Backplane Systems Technology is proud to present Neousys’ IGT-30 Series, TI Sitara™ AM3352 ARM-based Industrial IoT Gateway with Dual LAN and Pre-installed Debian. Neousys’ IGT-30 Series, equipped with the AM3352 from Texas Instrument’s Sitara AM335x family, is an ARM-based Box PC designed for Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) Gateways and Industry 4.0 applications. The IGT-30 Series is supplied as a ready system pre-installed with Debian and in compliance with common industrial certifications such as CE/FCC, shock and vibration. It has a power input range of 10 to 25 VDC and a wide operating temperature from -25°C to 70°C to ensure the IGT-30 continues to function under harsh industrial conditions. The IGT-30 Series supports PoE Powered Device (PD) mode, meaning it can be powered by a LAN cable from a PoE Power Sourcing Equipment (PSE), and at the same time transfer data via this cable. The IGT-30 Series has I/Os that are applicable to a range of industrial-grade sensors. It features one USB 2.0 port, two 10/100M LAN ports, one configurable COM port (RS-232/422/485) and an optional CAN bus port. In addition to the ports mentioned, there are 8 built-in isolated digital input channels that accept discrete signals from various sensors or buttons/ switches. There are also 2 built-in isolated digital output channels to control actuators and indicators. Communication wise, the IGT-30 Series has a mini PCIe slot and a USIM holder allowing it to transmit acquired data and system status via 3G, 4G or WiFi (mini PCIe WiFi module). There is an opening on top of IGT-30 Series for users to mount the SMA connector of the wireless module. In terms of storage, the IGT-30 Series has dual microSDHC slots, one internal and one external. This design allows users to separate the system and user data which can expedite in OS deployment for mass production. The IGT-30 Series provides six LED indicators and two function buttons that can be programmed by users. The function buttons can act as controls for the IGT-30 Series and exclude the need for external input devices, such as keyboard or mouse. Key Features: