Sandvik is preparing to deliver its renewed giant, the Sandvik LH625iE electric loader, to field testing to the Kiruna mine in northern Sweden. The unit to be tested is the 600th electric loader from Sandvik, and is custom-designed to meet the needs of the Kiruna mine. The giant underground loader, which features a 9.5m³ bucket and 25,000kg payload capacity, is designed to operate in the world’s largest underground iron ore mine, located in Kiruna, Sweden. The basic design of Sandvik LH625iE is well-proven, as Sandvik has been delivering electric loaders powered by a trailing cable for more than 35 years. In addition to utilizing the proven design and robust structures, today’s Sandvik LH625iE belongs to its i-series, featuring advanced technology, latest digital solutions and smart connectivity. As examples of the loader’s intelligence, the new Sandvik LH625iE is equipped with Sandvik Intelligent Control System and My Sandvik Digital Services Knowledge Box™ as standard, and to fully utilize the enormous capacity it offers, the loader can be fitted with Sandvik’s Integrated Weighing System (IWS), as well as AutoMine® and OptiMine® solutions. Due to the impressive dimensions of the Sandvik LH625iE (total length 14m, bucket width 4m, cabin height 3m), the operator’s compartment is also able to benefit from a roomy, ergonomic design: for example, the spacious cabin is equipped with a unique 180⁰ turning seat, which significantly improves operator ergonomics because it can be turned to face in the direction of travel rather than requiring over-the-shoulder visibility. The upgraded Sandvik LH625iE has an IE4 classified energy-efficient electric motor, with a further significant improvement being the totally new, low-tension reeling system to increase the trailing cable’s lifetime. The collaboration between Sandvik and LKAB’s mine in Kiruna dates back 20 years, during which time Sandvik has delivered a total of 28 loaders. “We are satisfied with the loaders delivered from Sandvik, with 14 still in production today. We have had a long and good collaboration and look forward to a good continuation,” says Michael Palo, senior vice-president, Northern Division at LKAB. Sandvik LH625iE is living proof that it is possible to achieve enormous carrying capacity and productivity without the use of traditional diesel engines and fossil fuel. The newcomers, battery-electric loaders, also reinforce that message, with Sandvik receiving positive results from its testing of Artisan A10 battery-electric loaders in Canada. Artisan A10 is the most capable loader in its size class, able to carry 10t whilst retaining its outer dimensions equal to those of current 7t diesel loaders.