The only conference in the Asia Pacific dedicated to Static Electricity & Lightning Protection. Interactive demonstrations and presentations from local & international manufacturers. Compliance and standards, latest research & technology, innovations and best practice. Before you plan your next static electricity or lightning protection project visit the Static Electricity & Lightning Protection Conference. Workshop with leading subject matter experts in Static Electricity, Earthing & Bonding, Chemical Additives, Electrical Installation, Lightning, Cathodic & Surge Protection, Australian & International Standards. Benefits of Attending: Who Should Attend? Amazing value for money! Keynote speakers and presenters, including committee members of CSELP & HAECA support SELP 2020 because it offers attendees an opportunity to talk to industry and subject matter experts for the modest cost of admission. CSELP has purposely kept this cost as low as possible so that all may enjoy the event. Similar events have cost well in excess of $1,500 per person. Keynote Speakers Mr. Jim Doumis – Instrumentation & Electrical Project Manager, Major Hazard Sites Mr Colin Baker – Hazardous Area Trainer – H Class Inspector Auditor, Advisor & Committee Member – Australian Standards To purchase your 2-day ticket for $328.90 incl GST and for any enquiries contact Cem Novella on +61 3 5977 5920 or cselp@cselp.com Once payment has been received a confirmation email and invoice will be sent to your nominated email address. Venue Flinders Hotel – Conference Room Cnr. Cook & Wood Streets, Flinders VIC, Australia 3929 Accommodation Flinders Hotel – Accommodation (03) 5989 0201 www.flindershotel.com.au. *Accommodation is not included in the price of a ticket and is to be organised by the attendee. All lunches, morning and afternoon refreshments are included in the ticket price. Dinner on Day 1 is included in ticket price – set course, alcohol is not included. If you are unable to attend the full conference program, contact us for details to attend individual sessions. Confirmation email and invoice will be sent to delegates within 3 days of payment. A 50% cancellation fee will apply for cancellations received 7 – 14 days prior to the start date of the conference. Cancellations received less than 7 days prior to the start date of the conference are not refundable. We look forward to seeing you and your team at the Static Electricity & Lightning Protection Conference 2020 on Thursday 13 and Friday 14 February 2020. Full terms and conditions can be found at www.cselp.com. Please read through the terms and conditions prior to the purchase of tickets as set out on www.cselp.com.