Before you give the go-ahead for a new set of common rail injectors, your first response should always be to restore full cleanliness and fortify injector lubrication. This will determine which injectors, if any, really need replacing. Using CRD Fuel Enhancer allows you to do this. Have you just been told to replace your common rail injectors? Well, in over 80% of cases they don’t need to be replaced! Injectors can certainly malfunction, but that does not mean they are damaged. In fact, the main problem with injectors is that they become fouled with deposits. Those deposits could be from dirty fuel or potentially created by the extremely high pressure, high temperature and fine clearances of the common rail circuit. Some 80-90% of the fuel is just used for cooling the injectors and is continually recirculated, resulting in loss of lubrication and poor injector response. CRD Fuel Enhancer restores pristine cleanliness and strong lubrication to maintain precise injector response. CRD Fuel Enhancer will correct over 80% of injector feedback values! Even values outside the +5 / -5 range have returned to within +1/ -1. Injectors with values that still indicate problems after treating with CRD Fuel Enhancer need only then be replaced. Why replacing your common rail injectors is probably a band-aid fix You can replace poor performing injectors, and the problem disappears, but the cause of the problem (deposits and poor lubrication) still exists, and will likely re-occur at some stage! So it’s actually a band-aid fix. Proper corrective and preventative maintenance using CRD Fuel Enhancer addresses the root cause and eliminates the need to replace most injectors. It also maintains optimal injector performance for very long service life. Replacing injectors could be a mechanic’s response to injector rattle, diagnosis of injector feedback values, or because someone topped up the diesel tank with petrol. It may even be just ‘because they’ve now done 100,000km’. Should you replace your common rail injectors after 100,000km? We have proved many times over that injectors just aren’t as delicate as originally thought! The mere act of restoring cleanliness and lubricity to injectors confirms their durability. The picture, taken is from one of our customers, Norman Turner’s, Scan Gauge reading on his Toyota Prado. Norm Turner the ex-postie (NSW) ran two Toyota Prados on his post-run using CEM products…a total of 700,000km on the original injectors. Now retired, he still owns the second one and, at over 300,000km, its fuel use averages 6.1L/100km! Obviously, there’s no need to swap out his injectors yet.