 Sandvik Mobile Crushers and Screens are proud to launch the next generation mobile heavy-duty scalper with the launch of the new QE442. An evolution of the class-leading QE441, the new machine comes with a host of updates and new features. This new QE442 incorporates many product refinements for improved plant durability, efficiency, quicker set-up and easier service access, whilst also maintaining the class-leading features of its predecessor. These benefits include a redesigned screen box for improved durability, reduced cost of ownership and “My Fleet” remote monitoring system is fitted as standard. The QE442 from Sandvik Mobile Crushers and Screens is a heavy-duty scalper with class-leading open scalping area enabling it to deliver enormous rates of production. Its design and attributes mean that the production of even the most hard-wearing of materials is facilitated through a wear-resistant steel apron feeder, with a massive stockpiling capability and over-wide conveyors that maximize delivery. Redesigned screen box for durability One of the key upgrades on the QE442 is a new screen box, which has been redesigned to further strengthen durability. Extensive FEA analysis has been carried out to ensure its longevity and reliability in arduous applications. The power pack has been redesigned for easy access to the engine during service and maintenance. Enhanced safety features including internal lighting have been incorporated, as well as modifications for improved plant efficiency. These include optimized hydraulics and improved hydraulic service intervals. The hydraulic fluid change intervals have now been extended from 2000 to 4000 hours thereby providing a 50%+ cost saving, as well as delivering environmental benefits. User-friendliness and operational safety are paramount As operational user-friendliness is vital for enhanced use, the new QE442’s electrical control system incorporates several features to improve both the operational effectiveness and machine safety. This simple, easy to use system features a key switch, a mode selector switch (set-up, operation & tracking) and one global plant button to commence sequential automatic start-up & automatic shut-down of the plant whilst in operating mode. A large visual display is also provided to enable an operator to view engine & plant status. Prestart warnings on all plant functions, ensure that safety, as well as ease of operation, is paramount at all times. My Fleet telematics The QE442 is fitted with Sandvik My Fleet remote monitoring system as standard. My Fleet has been developed to help our customers know exactly how their equipment is being utilized. Through the collection and accurate monitoring of a wide array of parameters, this facilitates accurate production forecasting, ensuring that the most efficient use is obtained from equipment, thereby maximizing return on investment. The QE442 also features two-speed tracks & radio control tracking as standard. Other NEW features include: – Enhancing its versatility, the QE442’s wear-resistant rigid hopper is compatible for 2-way or 3-way split configurations, as well as having the ability to interchange side conveyors thereby demonstrating the ultimate flexibility of the unit. The screen-box jack-up facility allows easier access to the bottom deck for maintenance and screen media changes. With a wide choice of screen media available, the QE442 can be configured to match specific requirements and is able to cope with a huge range of different, and difficult, materials and applications. These include construction waste, landfill mining, quarry overburden, mine dumps, and scalping before a crusher or screening aggregates after a crusher. With these and other new features, the QE442 is set to continue the success of the Sandvik Mobile Crushers and Screen line of scalpers and screens.