Strata Worldwide has signed a distribution agreement with Burrell Mining International for the promotion and distribution of the Burrell CAN® and Burrell Omega Block coal mining products to the North American mining market. These products will be added to Strata’s line of secondary roof supports and ventilation product offerings, available immediately. The CAN® is a yieldable secondary roof support made from a confined core of cementitious composite encased in a cylindrical steel canister. When installed correctly, the CAN® has never failed. Its flexible design can be engineered to meet mine-specific load conditions regardless of adverse roof or floor conditions, while the smooth steel skin of the CAN® also improves ventilation by reducing air resistance in the mine entry. Omega Blocks for ventilation, are specifically formulated building block, three times the size of regular concrete blocks, but significantly lighter in weight to help reduce labor and the installation process. The Omega Blocks are composed of non-toxic, incombustible materials that are both fire resistance and impermeable to air. The blocks are fully MSHA approved and are ideal for quick construction of underground ventilation stoppings. Burrell Mining International president and CEO Bob Weil said: “Burrell’s reputation as an industry innovator with a history of quality products and excellent customer service makes our partnership with Strata Worldwide a great strategic fit. Working together, we can provide customers throughout North America with efficient and safer secondary roof support products for the mining industry. Our new agreement with Strata Worldwide, a leader in our industry, positions both companies with turn-key, best of industry solutions to meet the growing needs of our customers.” Strata Worldwide president and CEO Mike Berube commented: “We are very excited to enter this agreement with Burrell Mining. They are a premier supplier of secondary roof support for coal mining and have an excellent reputation in the industry. The CAN® will be a strong addition to Strata’s line of roof support systems and with this agreement we will offer the most complete portfolio of roof support products on the market.”