Midwest Valves & Controls is exhibiting its range of valves, pumps, fuel handling equipment and associated fittings at the Mudgee Small Farm Field Days in New South Wales, Australia. The company will be showcasing its products on 12-13 July. The Mudgee Small Farm Field Days has been running for over 40 years and attracts approximately 20,000 people per year. Midwest Valves & Controls aim is to promote innovation and sustainability in agriculture and rural living. Our mission is to inform, educate and connect rural people with information regarding Midwest Valves & Controls and what our service offering is. Midwest Valves & Controls specialise in selecting industrial valve, pneumatic system, water, diesel, oil, grease pump and hose products for distribution Australia-wide. We are familiar with most types of industrial valves and their applications and have accounts with many valve supply companies. Located in Gulgong in New South Wales’ Central West, we are the proud supplier of Industrial Valves and Pumps, as well as other precision products of unparalleled quality for equipment automation and control of liquids, gases and air within a vast array of both industrial and commercial applications. Fluid power engineering and hydraulics are integral to machinery used in many industries, from mining to offshore oil drilling and many more. We at Midwest Valves & Controls have the expertise to source, provide, and deliver instrumentation supplies, diesel handling & lubrication equipment, industrial valves and pumps, and urea/DEF handling equipment. Owned and operated by chemical engineer Peter Willis, and subcontracting an electrician and a pump mechanic, our business has been operational since 2001, and we have the industry expertise, as well as accounts with many top equipment manufacturers and suppliers to enable us to offer our customers only the very best. We also proudly offer after-sales support that is second to none. Products we offer include: • Valves and controls for water, diesel, oil, pneumatic systems, as well as hose and grease pump products
• Pumps including peristaltic, engine-driven, solenoid-driven chemical dosing, centrifugal, progressive cavity, and Ezi-action drum pumps
• Instrumentation supplies including pressure gauges, switches, flow devices, temperature sensors, magnetic flow meters, and more
• Diesel handling and lubrication equipment including electric pumps, diesel bowsers, hose reels, fuel nozzle swivels, air-operated grease guns, and automatic lubrication systems MSFFD is Mudgee’s largest annual event and is the premier field days event in Central West NSW. So come along and visit us at Midwest Valves & Controls as we will be interested to attend to your enquiries.