Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology releases a new surface top hammer drill rig to its offering. The versatile Commando™ DC300Ri is ideal for drill and blast contractors as it suits multiple different construction applications. The new Commando DC300Ri is a modern fully radio remote-controlled, rubber tired surface top hammer drill rig with a vast hole size range (from 38mm to 64mm / 1½in – 2½in) using R28, R32 and T35 MF-rods. The rig is equipped with four wheel drive motors and oscillation, which guaratees excellent mobility and stability in difficult terrain. Together with a new boom structure and a reliable HL300 rock drill the new rig offers high productivity and low operating costs in challenging environments. Performance, intelligence and functionality The new Commando DC300Ri is extremely mobile and agile. It features four powerful tramming motors with maximum tramming force of 43kN in total. Rubber tires and the ±10° oscillation contribute to excellent maneuverability. A completely new, re-enforced boom structure with extended swing and reach results in 20% larger coverage area (compared to earlier models) equaling 12m². A flushing air capacity of 3.0m³/min allows deeper hole depth with larger hole sizes and the 24V electric system ads durability. Featuring the most advanced iTorque drilling control system available in its size class makes the Commando DC300Ri top-of-the-line in drilling performance and ensures longer steel life. The intelligent compressor control system and new CAT 3.6 74.4kW Tier4F / Stage5 engine contribute to unsurpassed fuel efficiency; adding up to more than 30% improvement compared to earlier models in the same size class. The Commando DC300Ri follows the same unique modular design as other smaller Sandvik next generation surface drill rigs. This logical layout ensures high uptime with easily accessible service points, on-board diagnostics and small transportation dimensions. Being only 2.85m in height allows easy and fast transportation of the rig from site to site on a small truck or even a trailer. Versatility to different applications Wide hole range and application specific on-board options make the Commando DC300Ri a multipurpose drill rig. It suits various different civil construction works, such as road and railroad job sites, trenching, channeling and different foundation works. The extended reach and the optional hydraulic roll-over, which allows the feed to rotate 360°, make the unit an ideal fit also for dimensional stone drilling and secondary breaking. With smaller hole sizes, the Commando DC300Ri suits tunneling applications perfectly. The hydraulic roll-over is a necessity in bolting and grouting and the optional one rod adding system gives flexibility and safety. A special fast tramming option for tunneling allows the drill rig to keep up with the other fast-moving machines underground. Additional essential options for tunneling include the exhaust gas purifier (for Tier3 engine), water flushing and powerful led-lights. In addition, the new Commando DC300Ri can be further equipped with several intelligent options to suit specific needs, these include auto-aligning, SanRemo remote monitoring and Remote Screen.