May is a very busy month for Nanotech Industrial Solutions this year. Our specialists and sales teams are travelling extensively, covering vast territory from Australia to India and from the Czech Republic to Nashville, TN. We are spreading the word about NIS’s proprietary technology in additives for lubricants, industrial fluids, oils and greases based on submicron spherical particles IF-WS2. Our VIP of Sales and Marketing, Mr Itsik Havakuk, was invited to speak at the Austmine Conference in Brisbane to present NIS’s newest developments and products that would be beneficial to the Mining Industry. As NIS is ready to open the Mining community minds and hearts to the next wave of disruptive technology and innovation, Mr Havakuk speech was tailored according to this year’s Austmine theme ‘Mining Innovation: The Next Horizon’. It aligns perfectly with NIS’s motto: “Engineering a Stronger Tomorrow”. Our goal is not only to keep the Mining Industry moving forward but moving smart, cost-effective and safe. It is possible thanks to NIS’s outstanding technology. Our work and independently conducted trials show that IF-WS2 deliver significantly improved performance in extreme pressure, anti-wear and anti-friction testing. “For operators of mining equipment and machinery these properties translate into availability and tangible overall cost reduction. What might be even more interesting, is the fact that IF-WS2 particles have been proven environmentally friendly as well,” says Mr Havakuk, adding that NIS’s technology was awarded ISO 14001 certification. Don’t miss Mr Havakuk speech at the Austmine conference. While Mr Havakuk has already landed in Australia, NIS’ CEO Dr George Diloyan is prepping for his nearly fully booked presentation on Tribological and Anti-Corrosion Property of IF–WS2 Particle in Aqueous System at STLE Annual meeting in Tennessee. Dr Diloyan will be presenting new data on how inorganic fullerene-like tungsten disulphide particles improve tribological performance, the cooling capacity of water and anticorrosion properties in Metalworking fluids. “We are very proud to say that Nanotech Industrial Solutions is the only company in the world that can control the shape and size of inorganic particles, and we own an exclusive worldwide license for commercialization of IF-WS2,” says Dr Diloyan. “Together with our partners and customers around the world, we are ready to meet the global demand for efficiency and sustainability.” This was the message that resonated this May in India, where NIS’s Director Of Technical Sales & Marketing, Dr Manish Patel, met with our clients, including the industry’s heavyweights HPCL, BPCL, Balmar Lawrie & Co. Ltd, Gulf Oil Lubricants India, Mosil Lubricants, Molygraph engineered lubricants and our distributors Chemo India & Vimal Chemicals. Meantime, NIS’s Sales Manager for Latin America Ms Leslie Hewlett is getting ready to break new ground in Peru (and beyond!). Ms Hewlett is in extensive talks with one of the world’s leading oil and lubricant companies, which is about to open a new headquarters in New Delhi. All the details will be announced in due time. And on May 17, NIS’s European partner Nanotech Europe’s sponsored race team will participate in Cesky Krumlov Rally. Earlier this Spring our Porsche, which engine was treated with AC-1000AW/AF Engine Oil Additive, took first place at the ValMez Rally. We wish our guys good luck in their new adventure!