Orway Mineral Consultants (W.A) Pty Ltd and Process IQ Pty Ltd announced they have formed an incorporated JV, Orway IQ Pty Ltd, to deliver a remote optimisation consulting service – MillROC (Milling Remote Optimisation Consulting) to the minerals processing industry, initially focused on comminution circuits. Headquartered in Perth, Western Australia, Orway IQ is led by Pieter Strobos (Chairman of the Board), Fred Kock (CEO), Brian Putland and Daniel Van Der Spuy (Executive Directors). Process IQ was among the eight companies nationally to share in $15.6 million of funding to support collaboration and innovation, and address METS sector priorities, as announced by The Hon Karen Andrews, Minister for Industry, on the 1 March 2019. The joint venture draws on Orway Mineral Consultants’ (OMC) expertise in comminution design, modelling and optimisation and Process IQ’s expertise in the IIoT (Industrial Internet of Things), cloud-based computing, process control, automation and instrumentation. Together the companies have served the mining industry for more than 50 years. Orway IQ’s MillROC uses real-time data in online process models and communicates the findings to the client.  The product is a Cloud-based reporting of all plant data related to circuit performance and optimisation, available anytime, anywhere – via the internet. Orway IQ expert consultants review circuits from around the world daily from our operations centre in Perth. “The joint venture company is aligned with the METS Ignited initiative to assist with the growth and innovation of the business,” states Orway IQ Chairman, Pieter Strobos. “METS Ignited is an industry-led, government funded, growth centre for the Mining Equipment, Technology and Services (METS) sector. Process IQ, OMC and now Orway IQ are at the forefront of the digital transformation in the mining industry, having been recognised for their groundbreaking work in this space.” Strobos continues: “We are receiving tremendous support from both Federal and State government and our consulting service MillROC has been recognised as having huge implications as a new product category for the mining industry.” Orway IQ has also been chosen to participate in the RISE Accelerator program supported by the WA Government department of Jobs, Tourism, Science and Innovation, The Queensland Government, NERA and METS Ignited – which is run by KPMG. The program has been developed to spearhead innovation into the industry and equip METS companies with the skills, capabilities and support to develop their innovation and grow their businesses. With a track record of delivering quality services in their respective areas, the collaboration will bring a wealth of experience and innovation in Remote Optimisation Consulting to the global mining industry.