Cape Town’s Battery Park is a new urban park that forms the gateway to the V&A Waterfront, integrating the city’s CBD with the V&A Waterfront through a number of pedestrian routes. Against the backdrop of amazing Table Mountain views, visitors to the park are able to engage in a range of outdoor recreation, entertainment and retail activities in various levels of public spaces. The site is also of archaeological importance as it still contains the rear ramparts of the historical Amsterdam Battery, one of the oldest structures in Cape Town. In a bid to make Battery Park accessible and interesting for all ages, a free public skate and scooter park was opened. It is the first skate park of this quality built within the city to world-class skate park standards using lightweight construction. The multi-court is suitable for general basketball and mini soccer games during the week or weekends, with adjustable hoops making it accessible even for younger players. Lighting Solution BEKA Schréder’s ZELA post top LED luminaires and LEDpost bollards were the luminaires of choice due to their aesthetic appearance and performance. The elegant ZELA with its timeless shape is ideal for applications where energy saving, low maintenance and precise light control considerations are important factors. This LED post top emits a pleasant, glare-free light, making it the perfect luminaire for architectural spaces. The Zela offers a cost-effective lighting solution for the creation of ambiance. The BEKA LED post bollard with its distinct design incorporates a highly efficient LED light source. Light pollution is avoided because there is no spill light emitted in an upward direction. The easy-to-install LED post offers energy savings of up to 70% and low maintenance requirements. BEKA Schréder locally develops and manufactures LED lighting products, designed and suitable for African conditions. We are very proud to be associated with Element Consultant Engineers in providing a successful decorative LED lighting solution for this prestigious project. Also serving the mining industry, our lighting systems are designed to increase visibility to improve the efficiency and wellbeing of workers in unused areas while making significant energy savings for you. Please fill out the enquiry form to get in touch.