 When deciding what type of trailer is ideal for application, it is important to understand the engineering behind them; if there have been constraints in operations due to trailer limitations, there may be a side-dump that opens new doors for you. End-Dump Trailers – Classic Design with Stability Challenges An end-dump is what most people picture when they hear the term ‘dump truck’. As its name implies, an end-dump trailer unloads out of its rear, with the box lifted into the air. With an end-dump, the box has to be raised high enough to unload its cargo, making the unit unstable, especially on uneven ground. End-dumps can also become more unstable due to loads shifting and typically are not suitable to haul liquids, as it is challenging to make the rear gate watertight. Belly-Dump / Bottom-Dump Trailers – Stable but Limited Applications The belly-dump concept has been around since the days of horse-drawn trailers. Today’s models use a clamshell-type dump gate to dump material straight from the bottom of the box. This enables windrowing, unloading the material in a long line rather than a single pile. Belly-dumps also have limitations on the type of materials they haul. Because the axles of the trailer must have clearance above the windrow, bottom-dumps are not suitable for larger pieces that will hang up under the suspension. Belly-dumps cannot haul fine material or liquid that will leak out of the bottom gates. Side-Dump Trailers – Greater Stability and Versatility The side-dump trailer concept was born in the early 1990s as a way to eliminate the costly and dangerous tip-over issues associated with end-dump trailers, as well as solving the challenges of belly-dumps. Side-dumps, of course, unload their cargo by tilting the trailer to one side, which provides greater stability. Side-dump trailers do not require the air in the suspension to be dumped prior to dumping the load. Side-dumps are easy to operate from within the cab and can dump on soft and uneven ground safely; there is no need to back up or find a level area to unload. With a side-dump trailer, operators can safely haul and unload a wide variety of materials. From boulders to wet material, the load releases faster and more safely. Plus, side-dump trailers allow you to stockpile AND windrow, and do it with a faster dump cycle, enabling more efficiency in your operations. What Sets SmithCo Side-Dump Trailers Apart? When researching your side-dump purchase, you will find SmithCo’s reputation for innovative trailers and responsive customer service stands out. We listen to needs and concerns from all of our stakeholders, from owners to drivers. We take your insights and design trailers with the latest technology and best quality in the industry, to make the right trailer for you. We’ve got you covered no matter the state regulations you must comply with. If you’re ready to learn more about the most versatile trailer in the market today, please fill out the enquiry form attached to this page.