Cape Town’s Green Point Athletics Stadium has recently been retrofitted with a high-power LED floodlight solution provided by BEKA Schréder. The Green Point Athletics Stadium was part of the 2010 World Cup upgrades to the Green Point precinct sports facilities, which were completed in 2015. This sporting facility is well used by many clubs, schools and universities in the Cape Town area, as well as by some South African Olympic athletes. There is currently a big drive by the City of Cape Town to reduce energy consumption. As such, the OMNIblast-3-E 1480W was chosen to replace the existing 2000W metal halide floodlights in the Green Point Athletics­­ Stadium. The OMNIblast-3-E is energy efficient and powerful enough to achieve the required lighting levels with fewer luminaires than the original installation. By optimizing the design, 22kW of energy was saved whilst still achieving the required lighting levels. The OMNIblast-E is the ideal tool for sports venues and other very large area applications that require a lighting solution with the highest efficiency and flexibility to adapt to the different lighting needs. Available in three sizes, this LED solution offers an alternative with proven benefits for traditional fixtures fitted with 600W to 2000W HID lamps. The OMNIblast-E meets the horizontal and vertical lighting levels according to sports federations and TV broadcasting requirements. A modular concept of optical units means that one, two or three modules can be mounted on a similar bracket arrangement to offer the utmost versatility, providing light distributions and lumen packages perfectly adapted to the specifications of the area to be lit. The OMNIblast-E incorporates a patented cooling technology that maximises its lifespan and lumen output. About Beka Shréder BEKA Schréder locally develops and manufactures LED lighting products, designed and suitable for African conditions. We are very proud to be associated with Elex Khanyisa Electrical Contractors and the City of Cape Town in providing a successful LED floodlighting solution for this prestigious project. We also provide lighting solutions for mines. For further enquiries please fill out the enquiry form.