Australian heavy lifting tower crane specialists, Marr Contracting Pty Ltd (The Men From Marr’s) has lifted its position among the world’s largest tower crane fleets, according to the 2019 Tower Crane Index in International Cranes and Specialised Transport (ICST) Magazine. In terms of fleet capacity, Marr has moved up to 13th position from 15th in 2018 and remains the only Australian company to rank in the annual Index of global crane companies calculated on the basis of the total maximum load moment rating, in tonne-metres, of tower cranes in a fleet. Marr’s 2480D Heavy Lift Luffer (HLL) also holds onto its position as the world’s largest capacity tower crane. With a total lift capacity of 330 tonnes, the M2480D HLL. According to Marr Contracting Managing Director Simon Marr said: “The M2480D is the powerhouse of our fleet. It’s not just the sheer lifting capacity of the crane that is revolutionising the large-scale construction projects we are working on, it’s also helping our clients think differently about craneage solutions that can drive the construction program to deliver faster, safer and more cost-efficient outcomes.” Although the 2019 Tower Crane Index highlighted a 26.66% increase in the number of cranes in the Top 20 Index, Mr Marr also emphasised that growth in crane numbers and fleet size is not necessarily the only sign of growth. “We have been able to significantly reduce the number of cranes required on large-scale projects by allowing large components to be pre-fabricated off-site and then transported for installation instead of being built in-situ. This has had a direct impact in reducing temporary works, adding an extra level of safety and shedding months off the construction program for a number of our clients.” To respond to the growing global demand for Marr’s innovative design solutions, Marr established its international operations based out of the UK in 2017. Marr is currently working on a number of high-profile large-scale construction projects in the Middle East, Europe and the UK, including 1915 Canakkale Bridge; Turkey; ICD Brookfield Place, Dubai; ALEC One Za’abeel, Dubai; Alba Potline, Bahrain; and Hinkley Point C nuclear power station, UK.